Lymph nodes are tiny glands shaped like beans.
They are located throughout your body,
with most being situated in your head and neck.
Lymph node filter a fluid called Lymph.
It begins as the fluid that
bathes all the cells in your body
and then enters a network called Lymphatic vessels,
where it constantly circulates.
It enters the Lymph nodes to be filtered.
Before leaving to return to circulation.
Most of the cells in Lymphoid tissue
are white blood cells,
Immune system cells called Lymphocytes,
and Macrophages.
Dendridic cells ingest foreign cells, like bacteria,
and in doing so,
leave small particles of the cells
called antigens on their surface.
Lymphocytes called T-cells become activated
when they encounter the antigens on the macrophage surface.
The activated T-cells stimulate
other Lymphocytes called B-cells
to produce antibodies against
the invading particles.
Once activated, B-cells move to a site
inside the Lymph node.
Where they multiply to produce more antibodies.
When B-cells are multiplying and antibodies are
being produced to fight infection,
Lymph nodes often get bigger
and tender to the touch.